A Strandbeest walking machine 

Inspired by a 2016 exhibit at the Exploratorium in San Francisco, 
https://www.exploratorium.edu/strandbeest 
I decided that summer to build a "Strandbeest" walking machine of my 
own. A video of it in operation is here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=84DEjkDabts

Strandbeest maans "beach beast" in Dutch, and artist Theo Jansen has 
been creating these intriguing wind-powered machines out of PVC pipe, 
wood, and fabric for several decades. 
http://www.strandbeest.com/ 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theo_Jansen 

My incarnation differs from his in several important respects:

(1) A critical part of the design is the linkage that converts rotary 
motion into a straight path for locomotion followed by a curved path for 
lifting the leg. Rather than using Jansen's 11-segment linkage 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jansen's_linkage
I used a simpler 5-segment "Klann" linkage.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klann_linkage
To simulate it first, I used David Rector's cool linkage designer:
http://blog.rectorsquid.com/linkage-mechanism-designer-and-simulator/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1gLx27AFfxo

(2) Instead of depending on relatively unreliable wind power, I used a 12V 
rechargeable battery that powers two gear motors, one on each end of the 
crankshaft. 

In response to a request posted on my YouTube channel, I am happy to 
share my design notes in this repository. But this is definitely not a 
"how-to" list of instructions for building a Strandbeest. You will see 
fragments of several variations of the design leading up to what I 
eventually built. Even the details of the final design are not complete, 
consistent, or easy to decipher. You will have to be creative and 
experiment! 

My beest stands about 3 feet high and is about 5 feet long. I originally 
intended this to be a prototype for a 10' high version, but I doubt that 
will ever get built. 

Incidentally, I tried initially building it half as long, thinking that 
six legs (three on each side) would be sufficient. Not true! 

Happy building... 

Len Shustek
4 March 2017